A GUIDE TO HOW WE DO 
THINGS ROUND HERE
(An Employee’s Handbook)
CHOOSE LIFE, 
CHOOSE A JOB, CHOOSE A CAREER
CHOOSE A FAMILY, CHOOSE FLEXIBILITY, 
CHOOSE WORKING FROM HOME, LEAVING THE 9-5 TO THOSE CONFINED TO THEIR OFFICE.
CHOOSE QUALITY TIME WITH YOUR CHILDREN AND TAKING THE DOG FOR A WALK.
CHOOSE COLLABORATION, WORKING WITH THE BEST COLLEAGUES AND THE BEST CLIENTS.
CHOOSE INCLUSION, DIVERSITY AND RESPECT.
CHOOSE EMPATHY, TRUST AND ADAPTABILITY, 
CHOOSE MAKING LIFE EASIER, CHOOSE NOT HAVING TO CHOOSE, 
CHOOSE ANOTHER WAY
CHOOSE THE AYATA WAY
CONTENTS
04 Our mission and commitments
05 Welcome from Shine
06 Our Journey so far 
07 Our Values
10 Our People
11 So, what’s it really like to work here?
12 How we communicate with you
13 How you communicate with us
15 The Ayata Way
17 Our People Policies
18 Working Arrangements
19 Family- Friendly Leave
20 People Policies and Procedures
21 How are you doing?!
22 Show me the money
23 Health and Wellbeing
27 Giving Back
28 Code of Conduct
Our mission 
& commitments
We focus on providing structure for our clients and a framework which allows us to truly understand 
the core issue that we are solving. We look to build, measure and learn.
MAKING LIFE EASIER…
•At its heart, our mission is to build, 
measure and learn both internally and 
externally throughout the entire journey.
•We support our customers and help them 
realise their aspirations
•Work with our customers to understand 
their points of contention
•Providing customers with structure and 
flexibility allows us to work with them more 
closely and understand the issue more deeply
•Allow our customers to determine success 
and pivot when necessary
•Deliver on our promises and ensure that our 
customers and employees are successful
Welcome,
from Shine
PHOTO OF SHINE
A word from Shine 
Welcoming everyone to 
AyataCommerce and 
what it means to work 
at Ayata etc
Shine Mathew
CEO and Founder, AyataCommerce
Our Journey so far …
2022 Our Journey continues…
2021 Office opened in Kochi
2020 New website launched
2019 
2018
2017 Established Partnership with SAP
2016 Ayatacommerce founded in Bracknell
‘Remote First’ culture implemented
Started India Operations
Regional Office in Bangalore
Our Values
We share a set of values that govern our working practices, personal 
standards and philosophies whenever we deal with Clients or each other. 
AyataCommerce has three values which are;
EMPATHY
Having a worldwide team which 
offers a variety of mindsets, 
personalities and viewpoints, 
alongside having an empathy 
driven culture helps us 
understand each other better, 
work together cohesively and 
deliver remarkable results. 
Empathy helps us to focus on 
active listening instead of 
thinking about what we’ll say 
next. When we embrace 
diversity, inclusion and equality 
then infuse it with empathy 
and care our team excels.
Empathy is the ability to 
understand what other people 
feel, see things from their point 
of view and imagine yourself in 
their place. Furthermore, it’s 
the ability to not only 
understand another person’s 
response but also anticipate it.
We are curious and possess a desire to know and understand others
Our Values
TRUST
We build and retain trust with our 
customers, our employees and 
our partners through positive and 
honest relationships, expertise, 
and consistency. We respect 
multiple dimensions of trust 
simultaneously. We value long 
term relationships and honour 
our commitments.
We value everyone and treat people 
with dignity and professionalism. We 
believe that trust is earned and is an 
ongoing exchange between people. 
Transparency is imperative to us as 
highly informed people are more 
efficient and valuable. 
We are authentic, proactive, reliable and available
We never over promise 
nor under deliver. We 
cultivate this trust by 
encouraging our 
employees to take wellthought-out risks
Our Values
ADAPTABILITY
By identifying and addressing 
uncertainties’ early and 
examining multiple alternatives 
through organisational flexibility, 
we are able to challenge the 
status quo and adjust to new 
conditions easily. 
We are open to innovative ideas, 
continuously learning and improving 
all aspects of business. 
We tune in, interpret and act
We are always looking 
for simpler, more 
efficient ways to work.
Click to add text
Click to add text
Our PEOPLE are
At Ayata, we really are a family, we help, we care, we celebrate and share, we are all 
different people working together and strive to offer the very best client and employee 
experience. That begins with each and every one of us and how we behave, that is why 
our values, Empathy, Trust and Adaptability really do matter. They’re the very essence of 
our organisational identity acting as a guide for who we are and how we do things.
Our success begins with our people: what each of us do to play a part in delivering our 
mission and commitments, and perhaps more importantly, how we behave with others. 
It’s not just about what you do, but also how you do it...
what make us special
So, what’s it really like to work here?
" AyataCommerce is a place where you find optimum 
work-life balance without compromising on the 
quality of delivery. E-commerce is a cut-throat 
competition, yet Ayata trusts us to complete our 
tasks and have our own individual working style!”
Namrita Gupta, Project Manager
“I appreciate that my input and opinions has 
been valued and respected by the team, and I 
have been treated as a professional person as 
everyone else. Hence, I love working with 
people - both colleagues and management, 
brainstorming ideas, and solving problems 
together. My voice is always heard.”
Cindy Lee, Technical Lead
“With two toddlers at home, like many women I also 
have thought of taking a career break. But with 
AyataCommerce I do not have to compromise my work 
or family time. I could choose the work hours based on 
my kids’ routine and I am really a proud working 
mother. The people here lend ears to any issue a 
newcomer/experienced can face, regardless how silly the 
issue can be. It is totally a judgement free zone. This 
place is transparent, open, and respectful. There is a 
sense of mutual trust that encompasses freedom.”
Sonia Antony
Senior Technical Writer
“There has always been a sense of comradeship in Ayata -
connect, talk, and discuss as much as you can, because 
AyataCommerce values open communication and inclusion at 
every level. The people here are great at doing things together, 
overcoming challenges, and genuinely caring for each other. 
Ayata offers an ecosystem to grow and nourish."
Robin Roy, Senior Quality Engineer
"Ayata believes in its people and it truly cares 
for us. The policies that are tailored with 
empathy and compassion can compete with 
any people-centric organization. Be it flexible 
timings and vacations or a multitude of 
learning opportunities - we've got them all 
covered by our org!“
Sreejith P S, Senior Software Engineer
"The HR and IT team provided me with the 
smoothest experience from my first 
interview to the onboarding. Since I joined 
AyataCommerce, I have been given 
countless opportunities to challenge 
myself and I succeeded with the help of 
extensive trainings and support received 
from the company."
Arkadeb Sinha, Senior Software Engineer
How we communicate with you
Good communications are key to successful relationships at work and we are committed to creating an open 
and transparent culture to support this. Our main communication channel is Microsoft Teams.
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Teams is our employee platform that enables us to communicate directly with our people through 
groups or online ‘communities’. These communities can be for the whole organisation and may contain 
global Company news, or just include the people on the project you are working on so that the information 
can be targeted specifically to you. We encourage you to get involved in the conversation by ‘liking’ or 
‘commenting’ and ‘sharing’ content; it’s accessible on a desktop computer or via the handy ‘Microsoft 
Teams’ app downloaded to your smartphone. 
Jira 
Jira helps our teams plan, assign, track, report, and manage work and brings teams together for everything 
from agile software development to customer support.
Confluence
Confluence is a workspace that allows our teams to create, collaborate, organise and share all their work in 
one place so every team member has visibility into institutional knowledge and access to the information 
they need to do their best work. This can reduce a lot of communication gaps on various matters.
How you communicate with us
Clockify
Clockify is our time tracker and timesheet app that allows us to track work hours across projects. 
We can track productivity, attendance, and billable hours with a simple time tracker and timesheet. 
We ask both existing and new employees to use Clockify to record their timesheet;
• New employees should select Ayata Internal- Onboarding for the first few days/weeks as advised by Line Manager.
• Existing employees working full time on a project should record all time against that project including internal 
meetings. 
• Check with Project Managers about booking time to each project if assigned to multiple projects; all 8 hours to be 
recorded to Projects. 
• All employees should record at least 40 hours per week and only record more than 40 hours if agreed with Project
Manager
• Holidays to be entered in advance
Full day, book 8 hours
Half day, book 4 hours
• Timesheets to be updated by end of Friday each week
• At month end, timesheet must be complete for whole month
• Keep it simple, no need to record each task
How you communicate with us
Zoho
Zoho People is our online Human Resource Management System which we use to manage and access all employee 
data from a centralised location, that you will be given access to when you start.
You may be given manager access if you line manage a team which will allow you to approve holiday requests.
This is a self-service HR system that can be used for;
• Personal Details
• Applying for Annual Leave
• Recording Maternity/Paternity
• Recording any Casual/Sick leave
We ask that you confirm any changes to bank details with Finance/HR to ensure that you are paid correctly.
Social Media
We really appreciate employees talking positively on social media because it’s really important for our brand and 
reputation. The messages being posted about Ayata within social media conversations shape and reshape our brand 
reputation on a daily basis. We all need to remember that our words are powerful and our loyalty has an impact on
how Ayata is perceived so we trust everyone to be aware of their responsibilities when using social media, either for 
personal use or as part of their job. 
The Ayata Way, Remote First…
We believe that individuals work best where they feel most comfortable and understand that a person’s value to an 
organisation is not quantified by the amount of hours spent at their desk which is why since 2018 we have adopted a 
remote first culture. It is important that how you work, works for you so here a few tips when working remotely.
1.Set up a designated workspace.
Separate space for yourself to work in, somewhere you can focus on tasks without being distracted and set up with 
everything you need for a normal working day – computer, phone, stationery, notebook…etc.
2.Make sure you have all the tech you need.
This includes a reliable and secure internet connection, any necessary files, hardware and remote access.
3.Get dressed.
Changing into working clothes will help you mentally switch to productive work mode. It will also help you distinguish 
between ‘homeworking’ and ‘home life’.
4.Write a daily to-do list.
Set out a list of realistic, achievable tasks to keep you focused.
5.Know when to step away from your desk.
When work is over, be sure you switch off to avoid burnout. Consider having ‘core hours ’ which people you work 
with are around for.
The Ayata Way, Remote First…
6.Stay in conversation.
Contribute regularly to team chats/group emails so you don't drop off the radar. Ask about what people are working 
on and share what’s on your plate. Being physically separated means you miss the ‘water-cooler moments’ so this is a 
means to keep informed.
7.Foster relationships.
Make time for non-work chats as you would in the workplace and use video calling to maintain face-to-face contact.
8. Turn on your camera and be clear in your communication.
Speaking in person gives you visual and audio cues that help you communicate. Conversing remotely removes a lot of 
that extra information so make your communications extra clear and concise. Turning on your camera will help 
people get to know you and remember you. When you turn on your video, it sets the tone for others to do the same 
and creates the conditions for more effective virtual communication.
9.Ask for support when needed.
Speak out when you need assistance, further training or support. Your manager, colleagues and you are part of a 
team and should be supporting each other, especially remotely.
10.Make remote working work for you.
Change where you sit, put on music, whatever helps you work. And enjoy the perks – no commute or uncomfortable 
shoes, and all your home comforts!
Our PEOPLE policies
We strengthen, support and protect our business with our people policies and 
procedures which represent our culture and our values whilst engaging with you to 
support a positive and respectful workplace. They aim to cover all aspects of your 
employment journey such as health and wellbeing, employee relations, diversity and 
inclusion, performance and pay, family care, working arrangements and time off. 
We review our people policies and procedures on a regular basis and we will notify you 
of any relevant updates. We trust you to familiarise yourself with and keep yourself up to 
date with them too. 
&procedures
Working Arrangements
HOURS
Unless specified otherwise in your contract you are required to work 8hrs per day. We trust you to determine what 
works for you with regards to when your working day begins and ends. 
ATTENDANCE
If you are unable to work because of sickness or an emergency, you must ensure your manager is informed as early 
as possible on the first day of absence. 
HOLIDAYS
If you work full-time on the India payroll you are entitled to 12 days of Earned Leaves each holiday year, 12 days of 
Casual/Sick Leaves. The holiday year runs from 1 January to 31 December. The timing of all holidays should be 
agreed upon with your manager as early as possible (for details please refer to the detailed Leave Guidelines). We 
would prefer staff to take their full holiday entitlement in the leave year to which it relates. However, it is 
recognized that unused holidays may be left at the end of the year. Therefore, up to 10 days of Earned leaves can 
be carried over to the following year to a maximum of 30 leave balances.
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS 
In addition to the annual holiday allowance, you are entitled to a paid holiday on the 12 public and bank holidays 
(inclusive of the flexible leaves). For details please refer to Zoho or contact your designated Human Resource.
Family-Friendly Leave
MATERNITY LEAVE
It is important that you inform your manager and human resource if you are pregnant at least 12 weeks in advance 
to plan for your leaves. We follow the amended Maternity Benefit Act, 2017.
For information on other parental leaves as below please contact HR. 
PATERNITY LEAVE
ADOPTION LEAVE
We have a bouquet of other leaves to address different personal situations, for which you may refer to the Leave 
tracker on Zoho and the process to apply on the Leave guidelines, for any doubts please reach out to your 
designated human resource.
People Policies and Procedures
GRIEVANCE
Our grievance process is designed for the speedy resolution of issues. If you have a concern you should, in the 
first instance, discuss the matter with your manager and look to resolve the matter informally through a one to 
one meeting or through mediation. If the matter cannot be resolved informally then there is a formal process to 
be followed - further information on our grievance procedure can be obtained from the HR team.
CONDUCT
You must observe company rules and regulations at all times and act in a professional manner, which maintains 
the basic confidence and trust underlying your employment with us. If you do not you may be liable to 
disciplinary action including, in serious cases, summary dismissal. 
CONSULTATION AND COMMUNICATION 
We attach great importance to the development and maintenance of effective communication with all staff. 
Meetings and presentations are held to communicate and discuss matters of importance. Regular 
communication is cascaded via email and through our ‘All Hands’ meetings.
PROBATION
Upon joining you are subject to a three-month probationary period. During this time, you may have up to three 
reviews with your manager. It is important to feel comfortable and confident in the work you do. 
For further information on policies and procedures please contact HR
How are you doing?!
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS
Our formal process runs November to October. Annual reviews take place in October/November each year with 
mid-year reviews taking place in April. You will have a set of SMART objectives which you will be measured 
against and these will be linked to Ayata’s values and business plan for the year. These reviews are a two- way 
process that give you an opportunity to have an open and honest discussion about your role and performance 
and your future career aspirations.
PAY
Your salary is as set out in your employment contract or as subsequently notified by letter. Salaries are reviewed 
annually but not necessarily adjusted and there is no contractual right to an increase. Performance review and 
Pay review are processed separately to suit the financial year.
PAY ADMINISTRATION 
Your salary is paid monthly on the first working day of the following month. Your net salary is paid by credit 
transfer direct into your salary bank account as facilitated by the company. 
DEDUCTIONS
You will receive a pay slip via your designated email address by the first week of the month.
Show me the money…
EXPENSES
We trust you to exercise good judgement and consider the Ayata Way values when submitting expenses. For further 
details of our expense policy please speak to Finance.
PAY QUERIES
If you have any queries about pay, please contact payroll.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
We are committed to the on-going learning and development of all our people and recognise that it is a pivotal role 
in our success. It is important to capture your development needs in your reviews and regular one to one meetings 
with your manager. Training will be provided in various forms, both in-house and through external providers which 
involve a wide range of training techniques. In return we expect all staff to ensure they strive to improve 
performance. 
For full details of our Training and Development programmes and initiatives please speak to HR
PROFESSIONALISM 
In the course of your duties we trust you to declare to HR any personal interest (whether your own or that of a 
partner, relative or other third party) which could be thought by Ayata to affect your impartial conduct of business on 
behalf of the company and you must preserve the confidentiality of information received in the course of your duties.
Health and Wellbeing
ABSENCE FROM WORK SHORT-TERM
Working when unwell can be detrimental to your health both physically and mentally. It could prolong any illness 
or injury and could compromise your cognitive abilities and decision-making, leading to poor judgement, work 
errors and under-performance, which is why we strongly encourage you to rest up and recuperate. 
We trust you to be responsible and exercise judgement: It is therefore your responsibility and prerogative to 
determine if you are well enough to continue working.
ACTIONS
• Ensure your manager knows as soon as possible on the first day of absence. 
• Keep us informed about your sickness and its expected duration. If you are going to be away from work for 
more than 48 hours, you must inform your manager.
• Make sure you understand the rules about company sick pay. Ask payroll to clarify any matter which is unclear 
to you. 
• Update Zoho record
CERTIFICATES
If you are absent for more than 2 days (excluding calendar holidays, Saturdays and Sundays) you will need a 
medical certificate from your General Physician to cover your absence. If your absence continues beyond the 
term of your medical certificate you must submit further medical certificates to cover the whole period of 
absence. All certificates should be forwarded to your manager and the HR team, and uploaded .
Health and Wellbeing
ABSENCE FROM WORK LONG-TERM
A period of absence of 4 continuous weeks or longer might be deemed to be ‘long term absence’. In the event of 
long-term absence we may consider altering your job functions or conditions or adjusting your working 
arrangements to accommodate your needs in accordance with the terms of the Equality Act 2010.
SICKNESS WHILST ON ANNUAL LEAVE
If you fall sick whilst on holiday you must notify your manager as soon as possible. To be eligible for this time to 
be treated as absence owing to sickness rather than annual leave, and to be eligible for CSP in respect of this 
time, you must produce a medical certificate to confirm your sickness as soon as is reasonably practical. The 
decision as to whether to treat periods of sickness whilst on annual leave as sickness absence is at the company’s 
discretion. In case you exhaust your Sick/Casual leaves, the leaves during the sickness shall be adjusted against 
the earned leaves.
RETURNING TO WORK
After a period of absence, you may be required to attend a return to work meeting with your manager. This will 
help establish whether any steps or additional support can be given.
Health and Wellbeing
Identify your triggers 
We all have times where we 
feel stressed, upset or find it 
difficult to cope. Working 
out what triggers poor 
mental health for you can 
help you anticipate 
problems and find solutions. 
Whether it’s taking in too 
much negative news and 
media regarding the current 
circumstance or a heavy 
workload. Finding out your 
triggers can help.
Quick tip: Keep active 
We know, whilst working remotely, we’re 
more likely than when working in a 
workplace to be more sedentary –
spending a greater amount of time sat at 
our desks, taking fewer breaks and 
moving around less. Consider scheduling 
a short walk as part of your morning 
routine before work or taking a walk over 
your lunch break. You might also consider 
whether any meetings would be 
appropriate to take as a ‘walking 
meeting’ on your phone. It might even 
inspire your colleagues to do the same!
Touch base with your manager 
It can be easy to feel isolated 
from the rest of your team 
schedule regular check-ins with 
your manager, whether that is 
weekly or daily, to have a general 
catch up on your wellbeing, 
discuss team or department 
updates, work priorities and 
horizon scanning. These regular 
catch ups can ensure you feel 
apprised of everything that is 
going on and how your work fits 
with that of the rest of the team.
Take time for yourself 
Spending time on yourself is essential for your wellbeing, and helps you be more resilient.
Ignoring your needs can lead to stress and burnout. Take short breaks throughout the day as 
well as at least half-an-hour to get some food. A short break can help you feel recharged and 
refreshed. It can also give you a different perspective on any work problems.
Health and Wellbeing
Be kind to yourself 
It’s important to be kind to 
yourself and remember it’s 
okay to not be okay. We may 
feel different from one day to 
the next as situations change 
so it’s important to be kind to 
yourself.
Celebrate the small successes 
We all want to contribute and make a 
difference to the things we work on, we 
want to feel accomplished and that 
we’ve achieved something. So it’s 
important to celebrate the successes, big 
and small. Some days that might mean a 
great piece of work, other days it could 
mean doing housework or making the 
bed. Try to identify one small thing each 
day that you can accomplish.
Quick tip: Get the basics right 
Quality sleep, a good diet and 
proper hydration can make all 
the difference to your work day. 
Be sure to keep yourself well 
hydrated throughout the day
Connect with colleagues 
Working remotely can be a 
lonely job. Evidence suggests 
that feeling close to and valued 
by other people is a basic 
human need. Good 
relationships are important to 
our wellbeing. Try joining 
morning or evening online 
exercise classes, joining virtual 
interest groups or even starting 
your own.
Quick tip: 
Create a home workstation It’s important to try create boundaries if your 
home is your office. Having a dedicated area of the house or your room to 
work from can help delineate your work time from your leisure time. If you’re 
unable to create a dedicated workspace, try ensure you create boundaries 
through packing away your work equipment at the end of your work day.
How we give back
Code of conduct
At Ayata we are committed to operating to the highest standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity, ethics and 
respect for human rights. As an employee of Ayata we also trust you to make the right decisions every day. As we 
grow our business, it is important that everyone here at Ayata understands how we conduct our business and 
bring to life our culture. Our Code of Conduct is the place where we cement and express the importance of our 
values and principles. We trust employees to never place themselves in a position where their self-interest may 
conflict with this. Any employee who breaches this policy is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including 
discharge.
We trust employees to be loyal to Ayata, employees are expected to perform their duties on behalf of the 
Company faithfully, diligently and to the best of their abilities
Conflict of Interest
Employees must never allow themselves to be placed in a position where their personal interests are in 
conflict (or could be in conflict) with the interests or business of the Company.
Employees must avoid any situation or activity that compromises, or may compromise, their judgement or 
ability to act in the best interest of the Company.
Code of conduct
Disclosure of Potential Conflicts
Employees must promptly disclose to the Company material information regarding any relationship, ownership or 
business interest (other than non-controlling investments in publicly-traded corporations), whether direct or 
indirect, that the employee or a member of his/her immediate family has with any person, or in any business or 
enterprise, that:
1. competes with the Company; or
2. purchases or sells, or seeks to purchase or sell, goods or services to or from the Company.
Protective Steps
Upon disclosure of the information described above, the Company will take appropriate steps to protect against 
any actual or potential conflict of interest. Such steps may include:
1. requiring the employee to refrain from being involved in any decisions made by the Company regarding 
its dealings with such person, business or enterprise; or
2. requiring the employee to refrain from being involved in any dealings on behalf of the Company with 
such person, business or enterprise; or
3. requiring the employee to dispose of his/her interest in such business or enterprise if he/she wishes to 
remain in the Company’s employment.
Code of conduct
Harm to Business or Reputation
Employees must refrain from engaging in conduct that could adversely affect the Company’s business or 
reputation. Such conduct includes, but is not limited to:
1. publicly criticising the Company, its management or its employees; or
2. engaging in criminal conduct or other behaviour that could harm the Company’s business or reputation.
Gifts or 'Kickbacks’
Employees must never accept any 'kickbacks', loans, gifts of other than nominal value (less than £50), or personal 
payments of any kind, from any person or business enterprise that:
1. competes with the Company; or
2. purchases or sells, or seeks to purchase or sell, goods or services to, or from, the Company.
Confidential Information
Confidential information (printed, electronic or otherwise) relating to the Company’s past, present, future and 
contemplated assets, operations, products or services, industrial designs, inventions, production methods, 
marketing strategies and objectives, personnel, facilities, equipment, finances, pricing, interest rates, sales, 
customers, routines, policies, and business procedures must never be disclosed to anyone outside the Company’s 
organisation, without the Company’s express written authorisation.